<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept-airpods-bluetooth">
  <title>Understanding AirPods Bluetooth Connectivity</title>
  <shortdesc>
    AirPods use Bluetooth 5.0 technology to establish a wireless connection with Apple devices. 
    Understanding how this connection works helps you troubleshoot issues and maintain a stable audio experience.
  </shortdesc>
  <conbody>

    <section id="how-bluetooth-works">
      <title>How Bluetooth pairing works</title>
      <p>
        Bluetooth is a short-range wireless communication standard that allows devices to exchange 
        data over distances of up to 10 metres. When you pair AirPods with a device for the first 
        time, the two devices exchange security keys and store each other's identities. This is called 
        <term>pairing</term>. After pairing, the devices can reconnect automatically without repeating 
        the full pairing process.
      </p>
      <p>
        AirPods use Apple's <term>W1</term> or <term>H1</term> chip (depending on the model) to manage 
        Bluetooth connections. These chips enable faster pairing, improved connection stability, and 
        automatic switching between devices signed in to the same Apple ID.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="icloud-pairing">
      <title>iCloud-based automatic pairing</title>
      <p>
        When you pair AirPods with one Apple device signed in to your iCloud account, they are 
        automatically available on all other Apple devices using the same Apple ID. This includes 
        iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch. You do not need to manually pair them to each device.
      </p>
      <p>
        Automatic switching allows AirPods to detect which device you are actively using — for 
        example, switching from your Mac to your iPhone when a call comes in — and transfer the 
        audio connection without manual input.
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="connection-states">
      <title>AirPods connection states</title>
      <p>AirPods can exist in one of the following connection states at any time:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Paired and connected</dt>
          <dd>AirPods are actively connected to a device and ready to play audio.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Paired but disconnected</dt>
          <dd>AirPods are recognised by the device but not actively connected. They will reconnect 
          automatically when removed from the case near the paired device.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>In pairing mode</dt>
          <dd>AirPods are discoverable and ready to be paired with a new device. Indicated by a 
          white flashing light on the case.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Not charged</dt>
          <dd>AirPods have insufficient battery to establish or maintain a Bluetooth connection.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>

    <section id="interference">
      <title>Factors that affect Bluetooth connectivity</title>
      <p>
        Several environmental and device-level factors can degrade or interrupt a Bluetooth connection:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Physical obstructions such as walls, furniture, or the user's own body blocking the 
        line of sight between AirPods and the connected device.</li>
        <li>Wireless interference from other Bluetooth devices, Wi-Fi routers, or microwave ovens 
        operating on the 2.4 GHz frequency band.</li>
        <li>Distance exceeding the effective Bluetooth range of approximately 10 metres.</li>
        <li>Outdated firmware on the AirPods or operating system on the connected device.</li>
        <li>Too many paired devices stored in the AirPods memory, which can cause connection 
        instability on some models.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

  </conbody>
</concept>
