<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ref-airpods-led-indicators">
  <title>AirPods LED Status Indicators</title>
  <shortdesc>
    The LED light on the AirPods charging case communicates the current status of the AirPods 
    and the case battery. Use this reference to interpret each light pattern.
  </shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    <section id="case-led-location">
      <title>LED location by model</title>
      <p>
        The location of the LED indicator varies by AirPods model:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>AirPods (1st generation):</b> LED is located inside the case lid, visible when open.</li>
        <li><b>AirPods (2nd generation and later):</b> LED is located on the front of the case, 
        visible when the lid is closed.</li>
        <li><b>AirPods Pro (all generations):</b> LED is located on the front of the MagSafe 
        charging case.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="led-reference-table">
      <title>LED status reference</title>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1">
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.5*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="2.5*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>LED pattern</entry>
              <entry>AirPods in case</entry>
              <entry>AirPods not in case</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Green (solid)</entry>
              <entry>AirPods are fully charged.</entry>
              <entry>Case is fully charged.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Amber (solid)</entry>
              <entry>AirPods are charging. Less than one full charge remaining in case.</entry>
              <entry>Case has less than one full charge remaining.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>White (flashing)</entry>
              <entry>AirPods are in pairing mode and ready to connect to a new device.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Amber (flashing)</entry>
              <entry>A pairing error has occurred. Reset the AirPods before attempting to pair again.</entry>
              <entry>Not applicable.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>No light</entry>
              <entry>Case battery is depleted, or AirPods are fully charged and case lid is closed.</entry>
              <entry>Case battery is depleted.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>

    <section id="check-battery">
      <title>Checking battery levels without the LED</title>
      <p>
        For a precise battery percentage reading, use one of the following methods:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Open the AirPods case near your paired iPhone. A battery card appears on screen 
        showing the charge level of each AirPod and the case separately.</li>
        <li>Add the <uicontrol>Batteries</uicontrol> widget to your iPhone Home Screen or 
        Today View to see AirPods battery at a glance.</li>
        <li>Ask Siri: "What is my AirPods battery level?"</li>
        <li>On Mac, click the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar and hover over your AirPods name.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
