<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task-reconnect-airpods">
  <title>Reconnecting AirPods to an iPhone</title>
  <shortdesc>
    If your AirPods are not connecting automatically, you can manually reconnect them to your 
    iPhone through the Bluetooth settings or by resetting the pairing.
  </shortdesc>
  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you begin, make sure:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Your AirPods have sufficient charge. Place them in the charging case for at least 
        15 minutes if the battery is low.</li>
        <li>Bluetooth is enabled on your iPhone. Go to <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> and 
        confirm that <uicontrol>Bluetooth</uicontrol> is toggled on.</li>
        <li>Your iPhone is running iOS 14 or later. Earlier versions may not support automatic 
        switching and some pairing features.</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>
        AirPods occasionally lose their active connection after extended periods of inactivity, 
        after being connected to a different device, or after a software update. This procedure 
        walks you through re-establishing the connection manually.
      </p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Place both AirPods in the charging case and close the lid.</cmd>
        <info>Wait 15 seconds before proceeding. This resets the AirPods' active connection state.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>On your iPhone, open <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Tap <uicontrol>Bluetooth</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <info>The Bluetooth screen shows all previously paired devices. Your AirPods should 
        appear in the list under <uicontrol>My Devices</uicontrol>.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the AirPods charging case lid while holding the case close to your iPhone.</cmd>
        <info>The AirPods status in the Bluetooth list should change from 
        <uicontrol>Not Connected</uicontrol> to <uicontrol>Connected</uicontrol> within a few seconds.</info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If the AirPods do not connect automatically, tap the name of your AirPods in the 
        Bluetooth list.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Your iPhone initiates a manual connection request. The status changes to 
        <uicontrol>Connected</uicontrol> when successful.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <result>
      <p>
        Your AirPods are now connected to your iPhone. Audio from your iPhone will route 
        through the AirPods automatically. You will see the AirPods battery indicator in the 
        iPhone status bar or in the Batteries widget.
      </p>
    </result>

    <postreq>
      <p>
        If your AirPods still do not connect after following these steps, proceed to 
        <xref href="task-reset-airpods.dita">Resetting AirPods to factory settings</xref> 
        to perform a full reset and re-pair from scratch.
      </p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
